# My Mac Dev Setup

## Overview
- Homebrew
- Dotfiles

## Homebrew
Install the Homebrew package manager, the missing package manager for macOS.

```sh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

## Shortcuts
Shortcuts
You can add shortcuts to your shell by going to ~/.zshrc and using the alias keyword.

Using an M1 Mac, you might at some point need to switch between the Apple Silicon (ARM64) and AMD64 architecture. You can add these aliases to switch between them easily.

alias x86="env /usr/bin/arch -x86_64 /bin/zsh --login"
alias arm="env /usr/bin/arch -arm64 /bin/zsh --login"
Run uname -m to see arm64 or x86_64 to see the hardware that is currently running.

## Node.js
Install the Node Version Manager (nvm) to install and switch between different version of Node.js.

```sh
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.1/install.sh | bash
```

### Install

```sh
nvm install --lts
nvm use --lts
node -v
```

### Update
```sh
nvm install node --reinstall-packages-from=node
```

## Git
The first thing you should do with Git is set your global configuration.

touch ~/.gitconfig
Input your config and create some aliases.

.gitconfig
[user]
  name   = Your Name
  email  = your_email@example.com
[github]
  user   = username
[alias]
  a      = add
  cm     = commit -m
  s      = status
  p      = push
  co     = checkout
  fp     = fetch --prune --all
  l      = log --oneline --decorate --graph
[push]
	autoSetupRemote = true
With the above aliases, I can run git s instead of git status, for example. It will also automatically set up your remote, so you can do git push on a branch without specifying the upstream origin.

### SSH
Generate SSH key
You can generate an SSH key to distribute.

```sh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

## macOS Settings
I don't like a lot of the Apple defaults so here are the things I always change.

Sidebar
To get the Home folder in the finder, press CMD + SHIFT + H and drag the home folder to the sidebar.

General
Make Google Chrome default browser
Dock
Automatically hide and show Dock
Show indicators for open applications
Keyboard
Key Repeat -> Fast
Delay Until Repeat -> Short
Disable "Correct spelling automatically"
Disable "Capitalize words automatically"
Disable "Add period with double-space"
Disable "Use smart quotes and dashes"
Security and Privacy
Allow apps downloaded from App Store and identified developers
Turn FileVault On (makes sure SSD is securely encrypted)
Sharing
Change computer name
Make sure all file sharing is disabled
Users & Groups
Add "Rectangle" to Login items
Defaults
A few more commands to change some defaults.

# Show Library folder
chflags nohidden ~/Library

# Show hidden files
defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles YES

# Show path bar
defaults write com.apple.finder ShowPathbar -bool true

# Show status bar
defaults write com.apple.finder ShowStatusBar -bool true

# Prevent left and right swipe through history in Chrome
defaults write com.google.Chrome AppleEnableSwipeNavigateWithScrolls -bool false
Application Settings
Chrome
Install uBlock Origin
Install React DevTools
Install Redux DevTools
Install Duplicate Tab Shortcut
Settings -> Set theme to "Dark"
Visual Studio Code
Press CMD + SHIFT + P and click "Install code command in PATH".

Now you can use code {file} to open any file in VSCode.

View Dotfiles for keyboard shortcuts and settings

Extensions
Install New Moon Theme
Install GitLens
Install Highlight Matching Tag
Install ESLint
Install Prettier
Install Jest
Install Jest Runner
Rectangle
Full Screen: CMD + SHIFT + ' (prevents messing with other commands)
Left Half: CMD + OPTION + LEFT
Right Half: CMD + OPTION + RIGHT
iTerm2
For some reason, iTerm2 does not let you use ⌥ + ← and → to tab through words in the terminal by default. I found this article to fix it: Use ⌥← and ⌥→ to jump forwards / backwards

Go to Profiles -> Keys:
Change ⌥← via "Send Escape Sequence" with b
Change ⌥→ via "Send Escape Sequence" with f
Conclusion
That sums it up for my current preferences on setting up a MacBook Pro. I hope it helped speed up your process or gave you ideas for the next time you're setting one up.

